<!-- what is computer
computer is machine which compute data.
data can be.
binary data(0/1)


Types of computer:
1.Digital computers
2.Hybrid computers
3.Analog computers

1. Digital computer: They work on bit
Data are of types text number audio video images.
            Advantages of computer:
            1. Accuracy
            2. speed


2. Analog computer
work on physical phenomena.
Advantages: 1. physical phenomena.

Disadvantage: 1. slow , less accuracy.

3. Hybrid computer
Digital + Analog = Hybrid computer.


 CONCEPT OF DIGITAL COMPUTER:
 Digital computer is an electronic machine which accept data in input process it and produce information in output.

 All Digital Computers are Electronics
 HOW DIGITAL COMPUTER WORKS..........
 ALU: Arithmetic logic unit.
 cu: control unit.
 CPU: central processing unit.

 what is software?
 software either control hardware or do some specific task.
 software is a set of instruction written in specific computer understandable form and performe specific task.


 Types of software:
 1. System software
 2.Application software


 How to develop a software?
  1. we have to know one particular programming language.
  2.  Translator
  3. Binary form.


  Computer programming language:
   1. language that understood by computer is called computer languages(or simply called as machine language(ml)).
   2. computer understand 0 and 1.
   3.  its means machine language has only two digits 0 and 1.

    Types of programming language:
    1.Low level language
    2.High level language
    3. medium level language

😇Low level language:
 Those languages which are close to hardware or hardware friendly.
 It need assembler for translation.

 🥰 High level language:
 Those language which are closed to programme or programmer friendly.
 it need comiler  or interpreter for translation. -->

Assembly language and assembler.
Language Translator: a translator or programming language processor is a generic term that can refer to software that converts that code from one language to another.

Assembler: assembler understand low level programming language.
symbolic machine language.
An assembler is a program that takes assembly instruction and converts them into a pattern of bits that the computer processor can use to perform its basic operation.

comiler and interpreter:
comiler: the simplest definition of a compiler is a program that translates code written in a high level language into low level code/intermediate code directly executable by the computer or another program such as a virtual machine.

comiler whole program at one go.
it converts the instruction into systematic code.

Interpreter: an interpreter is a computer programm that directly executes instruction written in a programming or scripting language,without requiring them previously to have been comiled into a machine language program.

interpret program line by line.
it doesn't convert the instruction instead directly works on source language.

c comiler and IDE
IDE : integrated development environment.
Advantages of using IDE:
easy to maintain projects.
easy to Debug
take less time and effort it include various tools and feature that help to prevent mistake organise resource and provide shortcuts.
programmers can quickly navigate to other member by using hyperlinks
IDE organize imports and can add appropriate imorts
it can give warning in case of any errors for mistake.

TOP IDE FOR C LANGUAGE:

1. VISUAL STUDIO
2. ECLIPSE
3. NETBEANS
4. CODE BLOCK

properties of C:
-> high level programming having features of low level programming language.
-> permissive language.
-> efficiency.
-> portability
-> flexibility
